Now let's animate the head turning back and forth.
So if we select that head control up here we can see we've got a key frame on that right down here right
there.
So what let's do is maybe write about here.
Let's have them begin turning and maybe looking to the left.
So let's go ahead and add a key frame here.
I'll press eye and choose location and rotation.
There we go.
So you can see it's been placed there.
Now let's move forward and let's turn the head.
So if we select that again I'm going to hit the R key two times and I'm going to just turn them like
this maybe all r and turn it back like that.
So he's just kind of taking a look around.
It's kind of that maybe a little quick.
Let me grab this one here.
Just this key frame and kind of move it back some.
Let's try this.
I'm going to hit the spacebar and we go.
Yeah I think that was a good turn.
Notice that it snapped back.
And that's because we have this key frame here still.
So it just kind of snapped back between here and here.
Let's go ahead and delete this one.
I'll hit delete and delete key frames.
Now let's take a look at this.
If we hit the spacebar again I'll turn and I'll begin turning back because we have this key frame here
as well so we could get rid of this key frame this key frame and this key frame we want to keep these
at the beginning in the end.
Right.
So we have the exact same position at the beginning and the end of the cycle but we could delete these.
So let's hit X and delete.
Now it's come back here and hit the spacebar again he turns maybe a little too quick me grab that key
frame hit the G key and move it out some like that.
All right let's try it again.
It play returns.
OK maybe a little bit too slow.
So now he's going to come back to the other side here.
But we want him to hold just a moment as he looks this way so I want to take this key frame and duplicate
it.
So he holds it a bit shifty and move this out like that.
Let's try this spacebar looks old now it's going to turn OK.
So now we want him to kind of turn from here if he wants to turn over to the right side.
So I'll grab that head bone at the Aki.
I'll hit it two times and kind of rotate around like this at the Aki again and kind of move it back
like that yeah.
So he kind of turns that way now.
All right.
Shift left arrow hit that spacebar he turns he turns OK and now he's got to come back to his original
position here.
So we need to take this key frame right here just select this one duplicate it with shifty and let's
move it over here now let's try it again shift left arrow spacebar turns it turned it turns back and
we go all right now I'm going to go ahead and hit control s and save here now what let's do is let's
work on the 2D base animation while he's doing is idle and looking around so really all I want is just
him to kind of blink and maybe move an eyebrow up or down as he looks around so I want him to blink
a couple of times in here let's say I want him to blink Oh right in here and again there.
So maybe only two times.
But to do that we're gonna need to draw a new stroke for the closed eyes.
Which means we're going to need to access that grease pencil object again.
So let's go back from Poe's mode to object mode select that grease pencil face object come back over
to draw.
And here we go.
Now over here in our layers we're gonna need to add a blink layer as well.
Let's come over here and hit the plus button and we go and we'll call this link.
How's that.
Well it looks like we lost the mouth.
Yeah we've got some.
There we go I just had to click to get it back.
I'm a press control asked just to make sure we don't lose anything now for the eyes.
What I'd like to do is just draw a little curve right here so that it looks like he's blinking to do
that I think I'll maybe take the radius down to three and let's use this arc again here and what I'll
do is I'm just going to click with this blink layer still selected.
I'm just going to click and drag this way like this and let's kind of get it.
Let me move this up a bit something like this.
Let's see how this works.
And I'll hit enter.
I need to select that let me turn the eyes off over here so you can see it there and I'll tab into edit
mode and hit the B key and border selected.
I may just try and move it around maybe turn into a bit like this.
All right.
So let's bring those eyes back.
How we doing.
Yeah.
So I kind of want them to be right there right kind of at the bottom of the eye.
That may be too big Let me hit the esky and scale it down a bit.
Kind of move it up into here something like that and then let's press shift D enter and I'm just gonna
drag it straight over here like this that we go.
So now if I turn the eyes on and off was it kind of look like he's blinking.
Kind of does I think if you look at him over here in the 3D view it kind of kind of kind of does OK.
So what we need to do is at particular points in the cycle we need to turn the blink on and turn the
eyes off.
So we're actually going to animate the visibility of the layers here and we're gonna see those key frames
down in the dope sheet.
We won't actually see them here in the grease pencil timeline so let's give it a try.
I want to actually take this and kind of move it up a bit.
So we have a bit more room down here.
So where do we want these to be.
Well I think we probably I kind of want the blink to happen just before the turn.
We tend to blink our eyes as we're turning our head.
I think maybe right in here I'd like it to begin right about there.
So that's frame 35.
OK let's add a key frame back here frame one to hold it.
So for the eyes I'll select the eyes and I'll right click on the eyeball and choose Insert key frame
right here and you can see that pop in down here.
Let me scroll the armature key frames up so we can see these.
So there's that eye's channel right there right.
In addition we need to create a key frame for the blink with it off.
So let's right click on the eye and choose Insert key frame and there we go there's our eyes and our
blink.
Now I said frame thirty five let's come up to here.
Do I want the blink to begin here.
I guess I do.
So I'm going to go back to frame 34.
And here is where I'm going to duplicate these key frames as well so I mean deselect everything.
And I'm going to select these two key frames and I'm going to duplicate these with shift D and move
them over drop them they're move forward one frame to frame 35.
And now what I'm gonna do is turn the blink on and the eyes off and with auto key framing selected we
get our key frames automatically there.
I'm going to kind of zoom in scrolling the middle mouse button and I'll move that over here OK so there
we have our blink.
Now let me deselect everything with alt A and I want to select these two key frames right here and I'm
going to duplicate them and move them down to key frames or two frames shifty.
There's one frame two frames right there.
So what I'm gonna do is have a one frame I close.
They're going to be close for two frames and then a one frame I open so deselect everything.
Select these two key frames again and I'm going to duplicate them and put them over here shift D move
them over here.
Now we go.
So now as I said we've got a one frame I close.
There it is.
Two frames closed one frame.
I open.
Let's see how it looks.
Yeah.
Well did you see that.
Or did you blink.
Let's try it again.
Shift left arrow spacebar Yeah well it looks OK.
Let's try that again.
Yeah so now that we've established these blinks what we can do is just duplicate them wherever else
we want them.
So if we hit play again I'll duplicate them again maybe as he's turning here.
Let's try that.
Deselect everything in the timeline hit the be key border select these and then let's just hit shifty.
Move them down here.
There we go.
But let's try this a d deselect shift left arrow to go back to the beginning.
Hit the spacebar he blinks there he blinks there you think we need one more over here let's try it grab
those shifty and move him down yeah move him to here.
Okay let's try this again.
Go back to the beginning spacebar.
He blinks he blinks again you blinks again OK.
I think these are a little bit too late.
Let's set the B key and I just want to hit G and move these back some maybe two about there.
Let's try this
link.
Yeah.
Why not.
All right good.
Now one last thing I want to do here is I'd like to move the endpoint of the cycle from 144 to 143 and
why do I want to do that.
Well currently the way it is we've got this frame happening two times.
So this pose at the very end on 144 is exactly the same as this pose on frame one.
And we don't need that happening twice.
So what I'm to do is just shrink the timeline one frame to 143 and hit enter.
Now let's see how it works.
I'll hit the spacebar again and then we go
yeah I think that's a pretty smooth transition between the end and the beginning all right.
I think that's looking pretty good.
So in the next video what let's do is let's go ahead and render out the 2D face animation to an image
sequence and what we'll do then is we'll bring it back in and apply it to the Geo face.
Idle object and if that works out all right then what we can do is begin creating new face objects will
duplicate the geo face idle for a geo base run geo face jump and we'll do the animations for those as
well.